Get in this video or trying to get the delete functionality and the first thing we need to do is actually
add a little X to click and each one of these.
So we all have to style it at all.
All that we need to add is a single little span with the letter X inside of it.
So when we insert the scroll down to where we're creating the to do right here after we add the to do
that name we're going to add in a span with the letter X and then close that span just like that.
And let's take a look.
And now as I hover you will see that we have this nice little red X and that only appears I'm playing
with the opacity.
So if you're curious how that works.
If you scroll down can see that by default span instead of an ally is set to have opacity zero.
But when we hover actually appear when we hover over the task we set the capacity to 1.
So I can hover over anywhere in that task and we can see the x and then there's a slight hover effect.
I don't even know if it's noticeable in the video but the X gets slightly redder when we're actually
on top of it.
OK.
So what we want to do is now listen for a click on that X and then remove the corresponding to do.
So let's go up here into our app.
Yes.
Just like before I'm going to add my event listener here.
This time we're looking for spand so any span not spam and any time we click on one we're going to run
a single little function but just to counter that log correct.
So we'll save and let's open up our console.
So I click over here nothing happens and if I click on the span nothing happens either.
So what's going on.
And the answer here has to do with event delegation.
So when our code is running here we scroll up when we're adding this quick listener to all span's.
This is happening at the very beginning when the page loads.
So there's no guarantee that any span's are actually there.
So we can actually illustrate what's happening better if I add in a new ally here that will load at
the very beginning.
So I'll just say this is starter text and then I'll add in a span and that's Bennell does have an X
and I'll give it a class equals task just to make it look the same.
So this one starts off here.
This is not generated from javascript that is there.
And I click that span and it works but none of the other spans do.
And that's because they're not there when the page loads.
So what we need to do we need to work with Jay Querini javascript here and instead of listening for
clicks on the span or any span we want to attach a listener to something that is on the page at the
time it loads.
So those spans are inside of a well into an ally instead of a UL and that you is there when the page
loads.
So we're going to attach a listener to the list class equal list but there's some magic.
So it started off with the up list on quick which anywhere we click on the list is going to trigger
that whether it's a span or not.
But if we add in a second after quick second string and we specify only on span's.
So what this will do is add the listener itself to the list.
But we're listening for clicks.
In particular on a span inside that list.
So we're routing it in something that is there when the page loads.
Now if I refresh first one works and so do the other ones it's hard to see but just look at that number
increasing.
When I click on that x.
So this is a common problem when we're working with single page apps and Jay query or whatever javascript
we're using we need to make sure that all listeners are applying even to dynamically generated code.
So when I insert something new here does that span work.
And the answer is yes.
And that's only because we're adding the click listener to the well itself.
OK so now we have that we've got her button there and it's listening for it to click on it.
So now what we have the quick we know what it's been clicked on.
So when I click on this X I want to remove this to do so.
There's two things involved in that.
One is sending the delete request and that's a little trickier because we actually need to know exactly
where we're sending the request to because we need the I.D. of this to do and right now we don't have
access to that.
We're not adding it anywhere.
We're not keeping track of it all that we're doing is adding some text to the page.
No IDs to be found.
The other thing to do.
It's a little easier is just removing it from the door to do that.
All we need to do is say OK the spend that was quite find its parent element which is the whole ally
and remove that whole thing.
So to identify the span that was correct we can just do a dollar sign this parent will give us an ally
remove.
And if we take a look now it's working perfectly.
But of course they're fresh of the page.
These will all be there because we're not deleting them in any way aside from just visually on the page
on the front and we're not actually sending the request to delete them.
So what we need to do we'll be sending a delete request so it's going to be a dollar sign.
Ajax There's no shortcut method for doing it and we're going to have method delete.
But then the real important thing is where do we send it to.
What's that you are.
And that you are.
It's going to be slash API slash to Dewes slash.
How do we get the ID.
And the answer is that when we actually insert each one of these to use down here we're going to store
our to do Id long Mongo thing we're going to store it instead of Jey queries data.
So what we could do is actually add it into our allies somewhere or we could hide it.
So you can do a data attribute if you've never seen that something like data ID and set that equal to
whatever the what is it to do.
Underscore ID.
We can use that.
But Jay query has an easier way actually where I can just add whatever data I want to any Jey query
element.
So let me show you going to do new to do that data which is the method and give an attribute name.
So a key and then a value.
Now I'm just going to call this ID and the value of ID.
Maybe I'll just set it to be one.
So all of these are going to have an idea of one.
Every time it is created and we won't see anything to make that clear there's nothing here there's nothing
in our age HMO to show that they have this data I.D. It's not showing up anywhere because what's happening
is that J queries actually just holding that in memory it's just keeping track of that.
But this new to do here has a data ID of one.
So what we can do is actually retrieve that I.D. later.
So when we click on the span instead of removing it when it comes to all of this out for a moment we're
just going to access this parent which gives us the lie that new to do that data I.D. and I'm going
to print that whole thing out.
So this is going to first find the span that was quick.
That's what dollars and this is.
Then find the parent which is an ally and then try and find a value for the ID attribute that we store
earlier which right now they're all equal to one.
Let's check what happens.
Look at my con..
Right click on a span and it tells me one.
So the next step is to actually store the Real I.D..
So we'll scroll down.
Where are you.
Here we are.
And new data I.D. instead of one is going to be to do dot underscore I.D. And remember that's how Mungo's
stores it.
If you're looking postman this is what we're working with.
So we're storing this underscore ID for each one of these.
They have a unique ID and restoring that using dot data.
So now let's refresh the page.
I click on any of these spans.
Aside from the first one because this first one is a starter.
Well delete that in just a moment.
You can see I'm getting a unique ID and they look all the same but look towards the end and they are
different technique for each one.
So now we just need to take that extract it back out add it to the you know send it delete request there.
Before I forget I remove the starter code that we had here.
So we don't have anything in this list.
So we were fresh now and we don't see that one up top.
OK.
So these are these are working.
Let's now send the correct request.
So over here when we're Where are we.
Here we go.
When we're confident logging the I.D. We don't need to do that anymore.
Let's just save that to a variable and we'll call this variable clicked ID.
How about that.
Just like that.
So it equals whatever Spanoulis correct parent which is now lie that data ID and then we're going to
send the age request which has a method of delete.
And are euro needs to be Sachi API slash to do.
And then we can do it here we could just add plus sign.
But I like to keep this clean.
So I'm going to make a new variable called Delete.
You are well it's going to be equal to that plus clicked ID.
So we're just combining this sort of taking that long Id we're adding it to slash API slash to do to
constructs that you are ill and then we're sending our delete request to that you URL.
And that's it.
We don't need to send a payload.
There's no data that goes along with it and then we'll add in then and nothing should be returned back.
Actually that's not true.
We are responding with a message so we can just let's just call it data and we can start by constantly
logging data and just see if it worked.
So when I refresh the page and I click on one of these Let's do this last one the jibberish.
We get our message coming back from the server.
We deleted it and if we actually look here we can see in our debug mode to do out remove is run with
this ID.
And if I refresh the entire page here it's still here because we're not removing it.
Now for fresh it's not there because when the page loads this is all that it finds when it does it's
get Jason because that's all there is.
So the last thing to do is to remove it to do itself which you've already done or we've seen how to
do which is using this top parent out remove.
But before I do that I'm actually going to extract this code out.
And see what we need as we go.
And I'm just going to have a function that's called just like it did for the other ones create to do
had to do.
I'm going to call this one remove to do and then remove to do.
I'm going to pass in this parent.
So the entire parent itself the entire To do we don't really care about the span itself anymore.
Remove to do which isn't defined it's going to take in the entire To do so then down here scroll to
the bottom well define function removed to do when to paste all this in here and we're going to start
off by refactoring so quickly.
ID is no longer this step parent.
It's just to do data ID because we're passing this stuff parent in under the name to do and or delete
you or else the same.
We're not going to do this stuff.
Parents remove me and do this properly.
So then function data so when it works we're going to take to do that remove Pittsboro.
So to do so we're passing in the entire ally.
If it works that delete requests we will remove it.
Let's test it out.
Any council errors.
Looks good.
So to remove one of these Bruce hiders looks like it worked to removed from our page to refresh the
page it's gone.
You can see that delete come in here.
Perfect.
So let's also get rid of both of these by Cheese's.
Finally it can clean up my list.
So that's all working perfectly.
You know we could add in our catch of course which we don't have.
Always good but not really the focus of this.
But we'll just cancel that log an error which is pretty annoying from a user's point of view.
They won't see anything unless they're tech savvy and look in the council.
But yeah it's all we care about for now.
OK.
So to reiterate how this works.
The real trick there is two things.
One was making sure that we're listening for clicks on something that exists on the page at the beginning.
And within that we're looking for spans which are dynamically added and then the second thing is that
we actually need to keep track of the IDs with each to do item.
So this is kind of a common problem with single page apps.
You have all this data from your database.
How do you keep it in sync.
Where do you store it.
So this is just a view this is just the front end it's what the user sees.
But should we put every little piece of data along with it and just hide it or do we create a javascript
object to model it.
Do we create a framework which is why frameworks like re-act exist.
They help you keep your data in sync.
If something changes in one place it can change in another place.
So all that's to say we are using j queries dot data method to store a little piece of data.
The ID for each wannabee's when we click on the corresponding x it goes to the parent finds that Id
sent to the request using that ID.
If it works then it's finally removed.
Let's make sure it works on newly created ones so things we create after the page loads looks good no
consulars.
So that's delete the last thing we need to work on is getting our update to work so I can toggle on
and off the completion status.